docs/ROO-INTEGRATION.md, before:

# Roo-Code Integration

This document provides detailed information about integrating the Memory Bank system with Roo-Code, an AI-powered autonomous coding agent.

## Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Quick Start](#quick-start)
3. [Detailed Setup](#detailed-setup)
4. [How It Works](#how-it-works)
5. [Integration with Existing Roo-Code Configuration](#integration-with-existing-roo-code-configuration)
6. [Advanced Usage](#advanced-usage)
7. [Automated Integration](#automated-integration)
8. [Example Scenarios](#example-scenarios)
9. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
10. [Best Practices](#best-practices)

## Overview

The Memory Bank system provides structured documentation and context retention for your projects. Integrating it with Roo-Code allows the AI agent to access this context, improving its understanding of your codebase and project goals.

The integration works by generating custom instruction files for Roo-Code that reference the content stored in your memory bank. These instructions are stored in the `.roo/rules` directory, which Roo-Code automatically reads when providing assistance.

## Quick Start

To quickly set up the integration:

```bash
# Initialize the memory bank if you haven't already
npx umb init

# Set up Roo-Code integration
npx umb roo-setup

# Update your memory bank with project context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Current development focus'
npx umb update productContext projectOverview='Project overview and goals'

# Sync memory bank changes to Roo-Code
npx umb roo-sync
```

## Detailed Setup

### 1. Install and Initialize

First, make sure the memory bank is initialized:

```bash
# Install the package if needed
npm install roocode-memorybank-optimized

# Initialize the memory bank
npx umb init
```

### 2. Set Up Roo-Code Integration

Set up the integration with Roo-Code:

```bash
npx umb roo-setup
```

This command:
- Detects if Roo-Code is configured in your workspace
- Creates a `.roo/rules` directory if needed
- Generates initial custom instruction files based on memory bank contents

### 3. Update Your Memory Bank

Populate your memory bank with relevant context:

```bash
# Update active context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Implementing feature X'
npx umb update activeContext openQuestions='How should we handle edge case Y?'

# Update product context
npx umb update productContext projectOverview='A system for managing...'
npx umb update productContext coreFeatures='- Feature A\n- Feature B'

# Add important decisions
npx umb add decision title='Use TypeScript' rationale='Type safety' implications='Learning curve' status='Implemented'
```

### 4. Sync to Roo-Code

After updating your memory bank, sync the changes to Roo-Code:

```bash
npx umb roo-sync
```

This generates updated custom instruction files in the `.roo/rules` directory based on your memory bank content.

## How It Works

The integration:

1. **Creates Custom Instructions**: Generates Markdown files in `.roo/rules` that Roo-Code reads to understand project context
2. **Maintains References**: Keeps references to memory bank files so Roo-Code knows where context is stored
3. **Auto-updates**: Can automatically update Roo-Code rules when memory bank content changes

The generated files include:
- `01-memory-bank-reference.md`: General reference to the memory bank
- `02-active-context.md`: Current development focus and open questions
- `03-product-context.md`: Project overview, goals, and features

### Generated Files Example

Here's what the generated files typically contain:

#### 01-memory-bank-reference.md

```markdown
# Memory Bank Reference

This file provides Roo with context from the memory bank located at:
`/path/to/memory-bank`

## Active Context
The active context is the current focus of development and recent changes.
Refer to this when working on the codebase to understand the current state.

## Product Context
The product context provides an overview of the project, its goals, features,
and architecture. Use this information to ensure your responses align with
the project vision.

## System Patterns
System patterns describe the architectural and design patterns used in the project.
Follow these patterns when suggesting code changes.

## Decision Log
The decision log contains important decisions and their rationale.
Respect these decisions when making suggestions.
```

#### 02-active-context.md

```markdown
# Active Development Context

## Current Focus
- Implementing memory bank integration with Roo-Code
- Creating a seamless experience for Roo users

## Recent Changes
- Added Roo-Code integration module
- Created templates for Roo rules
- Implemented auto-configuration for workspaces

## Open Questions/Issues
- What is the best way to keep Roo rules updated when memory bank changes?
- How can we provide a smooth setup experience for new users?

---
This file is automatically generated from the memory bank. Do not edit directly.
Last updated: 2023-05-05T12:34:56Z
```

#### 03-product-context.md

```markdown
# Product Context

## Project Overview
The Memory Bank system is designed to solve the problem of context loss during 
software development. It provides a structured way to document and track 
active context, product information, system patterns, and decisions.

## Goals and Objectives
- Maintain persistent memory of development work
- Provide structured documentation for projects
- Track statistics like time spent and code changes
- Integrate with development tools like Roo-Code

## Core Features
- Daily context files for tracking current work
- Session tracking based on time gaps
- Statistics tracking for development metrics
- Git integration for tracking changes
- Roo-Code integration for AI assistance

## Architecture Overview
- TypeScript-based implementation
- File-based storage using Markdown
- Hierarchical organization (daily files, sessions, archives)

---
This file is automatically generated from the memory bank. Do not edit directly.
Last updated: 2023-05-05T12:34:56Z
```

## Integration with Existing Roo-Code Configuration

If you already have custom rules in `.roomodes` or `.roo/rules`, this integration will not interfere with them. The memory bank rules are added alongside your existing rules, following Roo-Code's instruction combination order:

1. Language preferences
2. Global instructions
3. Mode-specific instructions
4. Mode-specific file instructions
5. Workspace-wide file instructions

Your existing custom rules will still be applied according to this hierarchy.

### Example: Combining with Existing Rules

If you have an existing rule file like `.roo/rules/coding-standards.md`:

```markdown
# Coding Standards

- Use 2-space indentation
- Prefer arrow functions
- Use TypeScript for all new code
```

It will work alongside the memory bank rules:

```
.roo/rules/
├── 01-memory-bank-reference.md  # From memory bank
├── 02-active-context.md         # From memory bank
├── 03-product-context.md        # From memory bank
└── coding-standards.md          # Your existing rule
```

Roo-Code will consider both your coding standards and the project context from the memory bank.

## Advanced Usage

### Programmatic Integration

You can use the Roo-Code integration programmatically:

```javascript
import { RooIntegration } from 'roocode-memorybank-optimized';

// Auto-configure for the current workspace
const integration = await RooIntegration.autoConfigureForWorkspace();

// Or with custom configuration
const customIntegration = new RooIntegration({
  memoryBankDir: '/path/to/memory-bank',
  rooRulesDir: '/path/to/.roo/rules',
  autoGenerateRules: true,
  workspaceDir: '/path/to/workspace'
});

await customIntegration.initialize();
await customIntegration.syncMemoryBankToRoo();
```

### Custom Rule Generation

You can customize how rules are generated by extending the `RooIntegration` class:

```javascript
import { RooIntegration } from 'roocode-memorybank-optimized';
import fs from 'fs-extra';
import path from 'path';

class CustomRooIntegration extends RooIntegration {
  async generateRooRules() {
    // Call the parent implementation
    await super.generateRooRules();
    
    // Add your custom rule
    const customRule = `# Custom Development Guidelines

Based on our memory bank context, follow these additional guidelines:
- Focus on the current task: ${await this.getCurrentFocus()}
- Follow our established patterns
- Consider our recent decisions

---
Custom rule generated: ${new Date().toISOString()}
`;
    
    await fs.writeFile(
      path.join(this.config.rooRulesDir, '04-custom-guidelines.md'),
      customRule
    );
    
    return true;
  }
  
  async getCurrentFocus() {
    // Get memory bank instance
    const memoryBank = this.getMemoryBank();
    const activeContextPath = path.join(memoryBank.baseDir, 'activeContext.md');
    
    if (await fs.pathExists(activeContextPath)) {
      const content = await fs.readFile(activeContextPath, 'utf8');
      const focusRegex = /## Current Focus\n([^#]*)/;
      const match = content.match(focusRegex);
      return match ? match[1].trim() : 'No current focus specified';
    }
    
    return 'No active context found';
  }
}

// Use your custom integration
const customIntegration = new CustomRooIntegration();
await customIntegration.initialize();
```

## Automated Integration

For a fully automated workflow, consider:

### 1. Post-commit Hook

Create a Git post-commit hook to update Roo-Code rules:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
# .git/hooks/post-commit

# Update the memory bank
npx umb

# Sync to Roo-Code
npx umb roo-sync
```

Make it executable:
```bash
chmod +x .git/hooks/post-commit
```

### 2. Scheduled Updates

Use cron jobs to periodically sync content:

```bash
# Example crontab entry - sync every hour
0 * * * * cd /path/to/project && npx umb roo-sync
```

### 3. Editor Integration

Create editor plugins that trigger sync on save. For example, with VS Code:

```json
// .vscode/settings.json
{
  "emeraldwalk.runonsave": {
    "commands": [
      {
        "match": ".*\\.(js|ts|jsx|tsx)$",
        "cmd": "npx umb roo-sync"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Example Scenarios

### Scenario 1: New Project Setup

```bash
# Initialize a new project
mkdir my-project
cd my-project
npm init -y
git init

# Install memory bank
npm install roocode-memorybank-optimized

# Initialize memory bank
npx umb init

# Set up core project context
npx umb update productContext projectOverview='A web application for tracking fitness goals'
npx umb update productContext goalsAndObjectives='- Help users track workouts\n- Provide progress visualization\n- Support goal setting'
npx umb update productContext coreFeatures='- User authentication\n- Workout logging\n- Progress charts\n- Goal setting'

# Document initial architectural decisions
npx umb add decision title='Use React' rationale='Team expertise and component reusability' implications='Need to set up React environment' status='Implemented'
npx umb add decision title='Express backend' rationale='Simplicity and scalability' implications='Need to design REST API' status='Implemented'

# Set up initial active context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Setting up project structure and dev environment'

# Set up Roo-Code integration
npx umb roo-setup
```

### Scenario 2: Daily Development Workflow

```bash
# Start of day - update active context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Implementing user authentication'
npx umb update activeContext openQuestions='Should we use JWT or session-based auth?'

# Make a decision after research
npx umb add decision title='Use JWT for authentication' rationale='Better for scalability and mobile clients' implications='Need to handle token refresh' status='Implemented'

# Update active context after implementing
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Adding token refresh logic to auth system'
npx umb update activeContext recentChanges='Implemented JWT authentication'

# End of day - sync to Roo-Code
npx umb roo-sync
```

### Scenario 3: Team Onboarding

```bash
# Clone project repository
git clone https://github.com/example/project.git
cd project

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Explore memory bank content
cat memory-bank/productContext.md
cat memory-bank/activeContext.md
cat memory-bank/decisionLog.md

# Set up personal Roo-Code integration
npx umb roo-setup

# Start contributing with context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Learning codebase and fixing initial bugs'
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Roo-Code Not Detecting Rules

```
Roo-Code doesn't seem to be using the memory bank context
```

Solutions:
1. Verify rules are in the correct `.roo/rules` directory
2. Check if the rules files have the correct format
3. Restart Roo-Code to reload the rules

#### Rules Not Updating

```
Rules files aren't updating when memory bank changes
```

Solutions:
1. Make sure you run `npx umb roo-sync` after updating the memory bank
2. Check for file permission issues
3. Verify the Roo integration is properly configured

#### Integration Setup Failing

```
Failed to set up Roo-Code integration
```

Solutions:
1. Check if Roo-Code is installed
2. Verify you have write permissions for the `.roo/rules` directory
3. Run with verbose logging: `DEBUG=* npx umb roo-setup`

### Checking Configuration

To verify your setup:

```bash
# Check if .roo/rules directory exists
ls -la .roo/rules

# Check generated rule files
cat .roo/rules/01-memory-bank-reference.md
cat .roo/rules/02-active-context.md
cat .roo/rules/03-product-context.md
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Contextual Completeness

Provide comprehensive context in your memory bank:
- Document all major decisions with clear rationale
- Keep current focus up-to-date
- Include architectural patterns and project structure

### 2. Regular Updates

Keep context fresh:
- Update the memory bank at least daily
- Sync to Roo-Code after significant changes
- Document decisions as they happen, not after

### 3. Clear Descriptions

Write clear content for Roo-Code:
- Use concise, descriptive language
- Format content with proper Markdown
- Organize information logically

### 4. Automated Workflow

Set up automation:
- Use Git hooks for automatic updates
- Schedule regular sync operations
- Integrate with your CI/CD pipeline

### 5. Team Alignment

Ensure team consistency:
- Establish team conventions for memory bank updates
- Review memory bank content in team meetings
- Use the memory bank during onboarding

Commit message:

Update installation instructions to address npm registry and git-in-git issues

docs/ROO-INTEGRATION.md, after:

# Roo-Code Integration

This document provides detailed information about integrating the Memory Bank system with Roo-Code, an AI-powered autonomous coding agent.

## Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Quick Start](#quick-start)
3. [Detailed Setup](#detailed-setup)
4. [How It Works](#how-it-works)
5. [Integration with Existing Roo-Code Configuration](#integration-with-existing-roo-code-configuration)
6. [Advanced Usage](#advanced-usage)
7. [Automated Integration](#automated-integration)
8. [Example Scenarios](#example-scenarios)
9. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
10. [Best Practices](#best-practices)

## Overview

The Memory Bank system provides structured documentation and context retention for your projects. Integrating it with Roo-Code allows the AI agent to access this context, improving its understanding of your codebase and project goals.

The integration works by generating custom instruction files for Roo-Code that reference the content stored in your memory bank. These instructions are stored in the `.roo/rules` directory, which Roo-Code automatically reads when providing assistance.

## Quick Start

To quickly set up the integration:

```bash
# Initialize the memory bank if you haven't already
npx umb init

# Set up Roo-Code integration
npx umb roo-setup

# Update your memory bank with project context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Current development focus'
npx umb update productContext projectOverview='Project overview and goals'

# Sync memory bank changes to Roo-Code
npx umb roo-sync
```

## Detailed Setup

### 1. Install and Initialize

First, make sure the memory bank is initialized:

```bash
# Clone the repository if needed
git clone https://github.com/shipdocs/roocode-memorybank-optimized.git
cd roocode-memorybank-optimized
npm install
npm run build

# Initialize the memory bank
npx umb init
```

> **Note:** This package is not currently registered on npm. See the [README.md](../README.md) for detailed installation instructions.

### 2. Set Up Roo-Code Integration

Set up the integration with Roo-Code:

```bash
npx umb roo-setup
```

This command:
- Detects if Roo-Code is configured in your workspace
- Creates a `.roo/rules` directory if needed
- Generates initial custom instruction files based on memory bank contents

### 3. Update Your Memory Bank

Populate your memory bank with relevant context:

```bash
# Update active context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Implementing feature X'
npx umb update activeContext openQuestions='How should we handle edge case Y?'

# Update product context
npx umb update productContext projectOverview='A system for managing...'
npx umb update productContext coreFeatures='- Feature A\n- Feature B'

# Add important decisions
npx umb add decision title='Use TypeScript' rationale='Type safety' implications='Learning curve' status='Implemented'
```

### 4. Sync to Roo-Code

After updating your memory bank, sync the changes to Roo-Code:

```bash
npx umb roo-sync
```

This generates updated custom instruction files in the `.roo/rules` directory based on your memory bank content.

## How It Works

The integration:

1. **Creates Custom Instructions**: Generates Markdown files in `.roo/rules` that Roo-Code reads to understand project context
2. **Maintains References**: Keeps references to memory bank files so Roo-Code knows where context is stored
3. **Auto-updates**: Can automatically update Roo-Code rules when memory bank content changes

The generated files include:
- `01-memory-bank-reference.md`: General reference to the memory bank
- `02-active-context.md`: Current development focus and open questions
- `03-product-context.md`: Project overview, goals, and features

### Generated Files Example

Here's what the generated files typically contain:

#### 01-memory-bank-reference.md

```markdown
# Memory Bank Reference

This file provides Roo with context from the memory bank located at:
`/path/to/memory-bank`

## Active Context
The active context is the current focus of development and recent changes.
Refer to this when working on the codebase to understand the current state.

## Product Context
The product context provides an overview of the project, its goals, features,
and architecture. Use this information to ensure your responses align with
the project vision.

## System Patterns
System patterns describe the architectural and design patterns used in the project.
Follow these patterns when suggesting code changes.

## Decision Log
The decision log contains important decisions and their rationale.
Respect these decisions when making suggestions.
```

#### 02-active-context.md

```markdown
# Active Development Context

## Current Focus
- Implementing memory bank integration with Roo-Code
- Creating a seamless experience for Roo users

## Recent Changes
- Added Roo-Code integration module
- Created templates for Roo rules
- Implemented auto-configuration for workspaces

## Open Questions/Issues
- What is the best way to keep Roo rules updated when memory bank changes?
- How can we provide a smooth setup experience for new users?

---
This file is automatically generated from the memory bank. Do not edit directly.
Last updated: 2023-05-05T12:34:56Z
```

#### 03-product-context.md

```markdown
# Product Context

## Project Overview
The Memory Bank system is designed to solve the problem of context loss during 
software development. It provides a structured way to document and track 
active context, product information, system patterns, and decisions.

## Goals and Objectives
- Maintain persistent memory of development work
- Provide structured documentation for projects
- Track statistics like time spent and code changes
- Integrate with development tools like Roo-Code

## Core Features
- Daily context files for tracking current work
- Session tracking based on time gaps
- Statistics tracking for development metrics
- Git integration for tracking changes
- Roo-Code integration for AI assistance

## Architecture Overview
- TypeScript-based implementation
- File-based storage using Markdown
- Hierarchical organization (daily files, sessions, archives)

---
This file is automatically generated from the memory bank. Do not edit directly.
Last updated: 2023-05-05T12:34:56Z
```

## Integration with Existing Roo-Code Configuration

If you already have custom rules in `.roomodes` or `.roo/rules`, this integration will not interfere with them. The memory bank rules are added alongside your existing rules, following Roo-Code's instruction combination order:

1. Language preferences
2. Global instructions
3. Mode-specific instructions
4. Mode-specific file instructions
5. Workspace-wide file instructions

Your existing custom rules will still be applied according to this hierarchy.

### Example: Combining with Existing Rules

If you have an existing rule file like `.roo/rules/coding-standards.md`:

```markdown
# Coding Standards

- Use 2-space indentation
- Prefer arrow functions
- Use TypeScript for all new code
```

It will work alongside the memory bank rules:

```
.roo/rules/
├── 01-memory-bank-reference.md  # From memory bank
├── 02-active-context.md         # From memory bank
├── 03-product-context.md        # From memory bank
└── coding-standards.md          # Your existing rule
```

Roo-Code will consider both your coding standards and the project context from the memory bank.

## Advanced Usage

### Programmatic Integration

You can use the Roo-Code integration programmatically:

```javascript
import { RooIntegration } from 'roocode-memorybank-optimized';

// Auto-configure for the current workspace
const integration = await RooIntegration.autoConfigureForWorkspace();

// Or with custom configuration
const customIntegration = new RooIntegration({
  memoryBankDir: '/path/to/memory-bank',
  rooRulesDir: '/path/to/.roo/rules',
  autoGenerateRules: true,
  workspaceDir: '/path/to/workspace'
});

await customIntegration.initialize();
await customIntegration.syncMemoryBankToRoo();
```

### Custom Rule Generation

You can customize how rules are generated by extending the `RooIntegration` class:

```javascript
import { RooIntegration } from 'roocode-memorybank-optimized';
import fs from 'fs-extra';
import path from 'path';

class CustomRooIntegration extends RooIntegration {
  async generateRooRules() {
    // Call the parent implementation
    await super.generateRooRules();
    
    // Add your custom rule
    const customRule = `# Custom Development Guidelines

Based on our memory bank context, follow these additional guidelines:
- Focus on the current task: ${await this.getCurrentFocus()}
- Follow our established patterns
- Consider our recent decisions

---
Custom rule generated: ${new Date().toISOString()}
`;
    
    await fs.writeFile(
      path.join(this.config.rooRulesDir, '04-custom-guidelines.md'),
      customRule
    );
    
    return true;
  }
  
  async getCurrentFocus() {
    // Get memory bank instance
    const memoryBank = this.getMemoryBank();
    const activeContextPath = path.join(memoryBank.baseDir, 'activeContext.md');
    
    if (await fs.pathExists(activeContextPath)) {
      const content = await fs.readFile(activeContextPath, 'utf8');
      const focusRegex = /## Current Focus\n([^#]*)/;
      const match = content.match(focusRegex);
      return match ? match[1].trim() : 'No current focus specified';
    }
    
    return 'No active context found';
  }
}

// Use your custom integration
const customIntegration = new CustomRooIntegration();
await customIntegration.initialize();
```

## Automated Integration

For a fully automated workflow, consider:

### 1. Post-commit Hook

Create a Git post-commit hook to update Roo-Code rules:

```bash
#!/bin/sh
# .git/hooks/post-commit

# Update the memory bank
npx umb

# Sync to Roo-Code
npx umb roo-sync
```

Make it executable:
```bash
chmod +x .git/hooks/post-commit
```

### 2. Scheduled Updates

Use cron jobs to periodically sync content:

```bash
# Example crontab entry - sync every hour
0 * * * * cd /path/to/project && npx umb roo-sync
```

### 3. Editor Integration

Create editor plugins that trigger sync on save. For example, with VS Code:

```json
// .vscode/settings.json
{
  "emeraldwalk.runonsave": {
    "commands": [
      {
        "match": ".*\\.(js|ts|jsx|tsx)$",
        "cmd": "npx umb roo-sync"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Example Scenarios

### Scenario 1: New Project Setup

```bash
# Initialize a new project
mkdir my-project
cd my-project
npm init -y
git init

# Install memory bank
npm install roocode-memorybank-optimized

# Initialize memory bank
npx umb init

# Set up core project context
npx umb update productContext projectOverview='A web application for tracking fitness goals'
npx umb update productContext goalsAndObjectives='- Help users track workouts\n- Provide progress visualization\n- Support goal setting'
npx umb update productContext coreFeatures='- User authentication\n- Workout logging\n- Progress charts\n- Goal setting'

# Document initial architectural decisions
npx umb add decision title='Use React' rationale='Team expertise and component reusability' implications='Need to set up React environment' status='Implemented'
npx umb add decision title='Express backend' rationale='Simplicity and scalability' implications='Need to design REST API' status='Implemented'

# Set up initial active context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Setting up project structure and dev environment'

# Set up Roo-Code integration
npx umb roo-setup
```

### Scenario 2: Daily Development Workflow

```bash
# Start of day - update active context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Implementing user authentication'
npx umb update activeContext openQuestions='Should we use JWT or session-based auth?'

# Make a decision after research
npx umb add decision title='Use JWT for authentication' rationale='Better for scalability and mobile clients' implications='Need to handle token refresh' status='Implemented'

# Update active context after implementing
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Adding token refresh logic to auth system'
npx umb update activeContext recentChanges='Implemented JWT authentication'

# End of day - sync to Roo-Code
npx umb roo-sync
```

### Scenario 3: Team Onboarding

```bash
# Clone project repository
git clone https://github.com/example/project.git
cd project

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Explore memory bank content
cat memory-bank/productContext.md
cat memory-bank/activeContext.md
cat memory-bank/decisionLog.md

# Set up personal Roo-Code integration
npx umb roo-setup

# Start contributing with context
npx umb update activeContext currentFocus='Learning codebase and fixing initial bugs'
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Roo-Code Not Detecting Rules

```
Roo-Code doesn't seem to be using the memory bank context
```

Solutions:
1. Verify rules are in the correct `.roo/rules` directory
2. Check if the rules files have the correct format
3. Restart Roo-Code to reload the rules

#### Rules Not Updating

```
Rules files aren't updating when memory bank changes
```

Solutions:
1. Make sure you run `npx umb roo-sync` after updating the memory bank
2. Check for file permission issues
3. Verify the Roo integration is properly configured

#### Integration Setup Failing

```
Failed to set up Roo-Code integration
```

Solutions:
1. Check if Roo-Code is installed
2. Verify you have write permissions for the `.roo/rules` directory
3. Run with verbose logging: `DEBUG=* npx umb roo-setup`

### Checking Configuration

To verify your setup:

```bash
# Check if .roo/rules directory exists
ls -la .roo/rules

# Check generated rule files
cat .roo/rules/01-memory-bank-reference.md
cat .roo/rules/02-active-context.md
cat .roo/rules/03-product-context.md
```

## Best Practices

### 1. Contextual Completeness

Provide comprehensive context in your memory bank:
- Document all major decisions with clear rationale
- Keep current focus up-to-date
- Include architectural patterns and project structure

### 2. Regular Updates

Keep context fresh:
- Update the memory bank at least daily
- Sync to Roo-Code after significant changes
- Document decisions as they happen, not after

### 3. Clear Descriptions

Write clear content for Roo-Code:
- Use concise, descriptive language
- Format content with proper Markdown
- Organize information logically

### 4. Automated Workflow

Set up automation:
- Use Git hooks for automatic updates
- Schedule regular sync operations
- Integrate with your CI/CD pipeline

### 5. Team Alignment

Ensure team consistency:
- Establish team conventions for memory bank updates
- Review memory bank content in team meetings
- Use the memory bank during onboarding
